I k so in this video we're going to be creating our test database to use later on in the section.
I've also included the escrow code that we're going to write in this video as a resource to this video.
So if you want you can just copy and paste the code into my square workbench and then just create that
database that way.
But for now if you want to follow along we're going to be creating three tables in our test database.
We're going to create an address table a people's table and our pets table.
So the first thing we need to do is actually create the database.
So let's create a database test
and then run this code.
And then we need to use that database so use test so run that and now we're in a test database we can
create a first table.
So the first table that we want to create in our database is addresses table.
So that's like create table addresses.
Open our brackets and with a semi-colon like normal and then we can type in our columns.
So the first column is going to be an ID column and this is going to become our primary key for this
table.
But for now we're just going to have it as an data type.
So it's going to contain 1 2 3 4 etc and then the next column is going to be a house number column.
So that's like PAOs number.
And that's also going to be an INS and then the next column is going to be a city column so the city
that the address is in and that's going to be a vulture and it's going to have a maximum length of 20.
And then the final column in our addresses table is going to be a postcode so a postcode is the British
equivalent of a zip code.
It's made up of numbers and letters and it has a maximum length of seven.
So this type of Shaw and have it set to maximum length for seven case so that's it for the addresses
table.
So now we can just run this query to actually create the table.
So that's done.
So now we can move on to the next table which is going to be a people table.
So let's say creates table.
People open up brackets and move a semi-colon and then we can type all columns on the first column is
going to be an ID column again.
It's going to be our primary key.
But for now let's type just for the data type.
And then the next column is going to be the first name.
So first name of the people entered into this table.
Obviously are going to be a vulture unless the maximum to 20.
And then the next column is going to be the last name of the people in this table.
That's also going to be a vulture with a maximum of 20.
And then the final column in this People table is going to be an address id type address underscore
ID.
And this is going to be a foreign key to the ID column you know addresses table which will add later
on in this section.
But for now the data type is going to be in it and that's it for the People table.
So let's run a query to make sure we've created the People table and then we can move onto the last
table which is Petz table.
So.
Pets of the people in the People table selects type creates table packs open or brackets and with a
semi-colon and then we can type all columns into our table.
So the first one again is going to be an ID column is going to be our primary key.
But for now let's just type it as the data type.
Then the next column is going to be a name column and that's going to be the name of the path.
So it's going to be a vault with a maximum length of 20.
And then the next column is going to be species so a species of the pet is a cat dog it's a drug that's
also going to be a vulture.
And that's the maximum length to 20.
And then the final column is going to be an owner ID.
So this is going to be a foreign key to the ID field in the people's table to specify which person owns
this path.
So that's also going to be an INS and then finishes that for the pet stable.
So let's just run queery.
And now we've created our test database with our free tables in it.
So let's just make sure that it did in fact create those free tables by running show tables
and you can see down here you managed to scroll up that we have our free tables so we have our addresses
table of people table and our pets table.
So now that we've got our database complete Let's look at how we can modify these free tables in the
remainder of this section.